# Custom Metrics Development <a name="ZH-CN_TOPIC_0000002512192053"></a>

<!-- md-trans-meta sourceCommit=unknown translatedAt=2026-07-01T08:40:03.087Z pushedAt=2026-07-01T08:45:32.150Z -->

The following two methods are supported for developing custom metrics.

- Developing custom metrics using a file

    You create a custom metrics file that meets the requirements based on the [Custom Metrics File](../api/npu_exporter/03_custom_metrics_file.md). When starting NPU Exporter, configure the `-textMetricsFilePath` parameter to specify the path to this custom metrics file. For details, see [NPU Exporter Startup Parameters](../developer_guide/installation_deployment/manual_installation/03_npu_exporter.md). NPU Exporter reads the custom metrics file in each data collection cycle and reports the file content to Prometheus or Telegraf.

    The development example is as follows:

    Use NPU Exporter to integrate and collect the `hccs_bandwidth` metric generated by the Devkit tool. For details, see [NPU Exporter Integration with Devkit Deployment Guide](https://gitcode.com/Ascend/mindcluster-deploy/tree/master/samples/utils/npu-exporter). For an explanation of the `hccs_bandwidth` metric information, see [HCCS Bandwidth Monitoring](https://www.hikunpeng.com/document/detail/zh/kunpengdevps/profiler/profiler/KunpengDevKitCli_0251.html).

- Developing custom metrics using a plugin

    You can customize metrics by writing a plugin. Before using the plugin, learn and understand the language features of cgo and Go, and read the [README](https://gitcode.com/Ascend/mind-cluster/blob/master/component/npu-exporter/plugins/README.md) to understand the usage method.

>[!NOTE]
>
>- Custom metrics must not have the same name as existing metrics.
>- You are responsible for the stability of custom plugins, ensuring that issues such as runtime panics are not introduced.
>- You are responsible for the correctness of the custom metric file format.
